# Messages API 
Design and build a RESTful API to work as a basic message store.

It should include these features:
  - a client can create a message in the service
  - the same client can modify their message
  - the same client can delete their message
  - a client can view any message available

Use an in-memory solution for storing any data for this service. Consider the appropriate HTTP verbs, headers and responses to use.
## Installation guide
Clone this github repository and open in in Visual Studio 2017. Build and run the project in a browser (tested it with Chrome and Edge). 
If the project cannot be built, make sure that System.Runtime.Serialization is added as a refference and Swashbuckle.Core as a NuGet package. 
## Documentation
The documentation for this web api can be found at http://localhost:{port}/swagger/ui/index#/Messages. 
## Webservices
The available Rest Verbs are Get, Post, Put and Delete, found at http://localhost:{port}/api/messages. All the Post, Put and Delete methods need Basic authentication in order for a user to use them. Any random authentication is fine, once a user and password is written as basic authentication, another user cannot user the same for the username without the password. 

## Headers and body examples for each webservice that I used in Postman
#### Get with or without parameter
Header: 
content-type: application/json
accept-language: en-US,en;q=0.8,en-US,en;q=0.8
user-agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/63.0.3239.132 Safari/537.36,Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/63.0.3239.132 Safari/537.36
accept: application/json

##  POST, PUT, DELETE
Header
content-type: application/json

accept-language: en-US,en;q=0.8,en-US,en;q=0.8

user-agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/63.0.3239.132
Safari/537.36,Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/63.0.3239.132 Safari/537.36

accept: application/json

authorization: Basic ZGFuOmRhbg==

(The authorization can be anything unless it was added already inside the collection in memory)

Post Body: 

{

"Text": "hello"

}

or 
{
"Id": 11,

"Text": "hello",

"DateTime": "2018-01-25T17:38:56.6711451+01:00",

"Username": "dan1"

}

Only "Text" is used inside the webservice. I used the Message as a parameter such that in the future it can hold more information and not only the message. The other 3 variables are autogenerated by the webservice and that's why they are ignored. 

Put : Same Body as the Post and with an id as a parameter.



## More explanations
I have used authentication to make sure that only the same client can modify or delete their own message. I save the authenticated users inside a Dictionary inside a class based on singleton pattern. The same way I save the messages, inside a list inside a class based on singleton pattern. 

